Let's keep talking about views because
obviously you can't get enough of them.
So let's go ahead and
grab this expensive query over
here, Which is this one.
I don't wanna type it all.
So we're just gonna grab it like this.
So basically I went and grabbed from
people p I grabbed the cast, and
then I grabbed all of the roles,
and the movies that they were in.
So imagine I'm making some sorta
page that shows various actors and
actresses and
the roles that they played and
the movies that they were in right you
can imagine that being really useful but
writing this query over and over
particularly if I have to join it again
to other things that's just gonna suck and
I don't wanna do that.
This is another place where a view
is gonna be super useful for you.
So instead of doing all of this again,
I'm just gonna grab the query here again,
I'm gonna create a view
called actors_ roles_movies.
To where it's literally
just that same query again,
again leaving off the limit five.
And now, instead of having
to do this big stupid query
I can say SELECT * FROM
actors_roles movies LIMIT 10 and
I just get everything that I had there,
right?
So much easier to deal with.
Hopefully you're starting to see as we
build it up, there's like this is where
this gets really useful, especially when
you have big complicated tables to this.
We do lots of joins,
you can create these views that make
it easier to kinda work with data.
The nice thing about views is
that they are always current.
Right?
All it's doing is it's running
a the underlying query first,
giving you back that result set, and
then your query is querying that
result set.you cannot index a view.
So I can't say create index on,
actors roles movies,
because if you think about it,
that doesn't make any sense.
Because you're not queering the actual
view the view is just a window
to look through.
You're actually querying
the underlying databases.
So if you have a slow view, you need to
index whatever the view is query, right?
Does that make sense?
We will see in a second you can
index a different kinda view called
a materialized view.
But that'll be in the next section.
Yeah, this is just way easier to look at.
Now the nice thing about this is we can
now start joining from this table two
other tables.
So this actually you can treat views
100% like you treat a table, which is,
part of the power here.
Imagine if I had to join this,
somewhat gnarly query to
this somewhat gnarly query.
That would be unfun is the term
I would choose for that.
If you would have a very very long query,
instead what we can do here is we have
we can select from actors_roles_movies,
that view that we made.
And then we can use that
basically as a normal table and
we can do joins based on arm that movie
ID which is refers to actor_roles_movies,
and we can get this kinda built up query.
So this question is asking
what types of actors and
actresses tend to act in
the same sorts of movies?
So, the one thing I'm gonna say here,
because this is joining from a view,
which is already kinda an expensive view,
this query is gonna be the most expensive
query that we knew and I have run so far.
So I'm not gonna write all of
this because it's a lot and
I don't wanna write all of it.
If you're running on a really slow
computer, and you still wanna see results,
just comment out this or delete these
comments, and it'll limit the scope
down a little bit, so it'll be a little
bit of less expensive to run but
now I can run this you can see that is
taking a decent amount of time to run and
surprise the actor that far above X
in the same sorts of movies over and
over again, it's Jackie Chan and
martial art movies, right?
But, who else do we know in here?
Robert De Niro, x and
a lot of movies about New York.
I'm not surprised by that.
And Jackie Chan is in movies
about Hong Kong a lot,
and Stan Lee is in a lot
of superhero movies.
Okay, that tracks.
And Tara Strong, she's the voice actor for
Harley Quinn, right?
And she acts in a lot of
movies about Gotham City,
which is where Batman is, right?
So that tracks as well.
For fun.
Let's get this all the way
up here to the top.
Let's do an explain
analyze on this Bad Boy.
295409 It's really interesting
that all of this is in a prep.
The actual execution of this is 0.05.
Where it adds 0.07 execution.
All of it's in the set-up.
But anyways, suffice to say, this so
far is by far the most
expensive query that we've run.
It took, Time,
yeah, it took 3.6 seconds to run
obviously this is not something you're
gonna wanna run in production 3.6
seconds on a very fast back is gonna
translate to crashed servers for sure So
I'm gonna show you in the next section how
to actually make this a very fast query.
We are gonna speed up
this query by 4,000,000%.
Not bad.